conda-recipe/README.md, before:

conda-recipe
=========

This repository provides the recipes for building binary packages of [Cornell-MOE]

```
conda config --add channels https://conda.binstar.org/rmcgibbo
conda install moe
```

This package is available for linux-64, targetting Ubuntu 10.04 or later, CentOS 6.0+ or later, or similar.

### Notes
This repository obviously includes recipes for a number of packages other than MOE. These are all direct or indirect dependencies of MOE, which are not included with the `default` conda channels, and we therefore build and push to binstar to make things _just work_.

### libstdc++

MOE uses C++11 features, which requires a quite modern version of GCC (4.7.3+), and a similarly new version of the runtime c++ standard library, libstd++. The version of libstdc++ distributed with Ubuntu 10.04 and CentOS 6.0 is
too old to support runtime C++11 code. Therefore, this conda build of MOE depends on an external libstdc++ conda package, which povides a more recent library. See [the recipe](https://github.com/rmcgibbo/conda-moe/blob/master/libstdcplusplus/build.sh) for the dirty, dirty hack.

### building the binaries

Our builds of these conda recipes were performed on a fresh Ubuntu 10.04 64-bit VM (vagrant) with the following provisioning:

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install python-software-properties
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-toolchain-r/test
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install libgcc-4.7-dev  cpp-4.7 gcc-4.7-base  g++-4.7 make libbz2-1.0 libbz2-dev git-core
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/gcc gcc /usr/bin/gcc-4.7 20
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/g++ g++ /usr/bin/g++-4.7 20

wget http://repo.continuum.io/miniconda/Miniconda-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
bash Miniconda-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh -b
export PATH=$HOME/miniconda/bin/:$PATH
conda install conda-build

# The conda recipes for the boost dependency are in a separate github
# repository:
# https://github.com/rmcgibbo/conda-cheminformatics/tree/master/boost
conda config --add channels https://conda.binstar.org/rmcgibbo

git clone https://github.com/rmcgibbo/conda-moe.git
cd conda-moe
conda build *
`

Commit message:

add conda recipes and guide on how to install using conda package

conda-recipe/README.md, after:

conda-moe
=========

This repository provides the recipes for building binary packages of cornel-moe. 


The built binaries are available on binstar.org, and can be installed using the following command

```
conda config --add channels https://conda.binstar.org/rmcgibbo
conda install moe
```

This package is available for linux-64, targetting Ubuntu 10.04 or later, CentOS 6.0+ or later, or similar.

### Notes
This repository obviously includes recipes for a number of packages other than MOE. These are all direct or indirect dependencies of MOE, which are not included with the `default` conda channels, and we therefore build and push to binstar to make things _just work_.

### libstdc++

MOE uses C++11 features, which requires a quite modern version of GCC (4.7.3+), and a similarly new version of the runtime c++ standard library, libstd++. The version of libstdc++ distributed with Ubuntu 10.04 and CentOS 6.0 is
too old to support runtime C++11 code. Therefore, this conda build of MOE depends on an external libstdc++ conda package, which povides a more recent library. See [the recipe](https://github.com/rmcgibbo/conda-moe/blob/master/libstdcplusplus/build.sh) for the dirty, dirty hack.

### building the binaries

Our builds of these conda recipes were performed on a fresh Ubuntu 10.04 64-bit VM (vagrant) with the following provisioning:

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install python-software-properties
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-toolchain-r/test
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install libgcc-4.7-dev  cpp-4.7 gcc-4.7-base  g++-4.7 make libbz2-1.0 libbz2-dev git-core
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/gcc gcc /usr/bin/gcc-4.7 20
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/g++ g++ /usr/bin/g++-4.7 20

wget http://repo.continuum.io/miniconda/Miniconda-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
bash Miniconda-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh -b
export PATH=$HOME/miniconda/bin/:$PATH
conda install conda-build

# The conda recipes for the boost dependency are in a separate github
# repository:
# https://github.com/rmcgibbo/conda-cheminformatics/tree/master/boost
conda config --add channels https://conda.binstar.org/rmcgibbo

git clone https://github.com/rmcgibbo/conda-moe.git
cd conda-moe
conda build *
```
